Therapy Session ID: TS0007
User: Jack
Date: 25th August 2023

So I know we've determined that you sprained your ankle yesterday and I'm wondering if you can tell me a little bit about how that happened?
Um, it's really stupid. Uh, I was at a pub crawl last night and you know how pub crawls are. You have a few drinks and then I thought it was a really good idea to catch up with my friends who are, yeah, they're in front of me. So I just like jumped off the stairs of the bus and I was wearing these like stilettos 'cause it was a 90s-themed pub crawl. Anyway, and then I just like fell on my ankle. It was really embarrassing.
Sounds like a wild night.
Yeah.
It was a lot of fun but I didn't do any dancing after that.
No, I guess that that would be the end of your, uh, shaking and moving. I know-- I wonder if you'd be open to exploring your alcohol use and what that looks like during the week.
Uh, sure, uh, as long as we don't talk too much about like vodka 'cause I'm still, ugh, a little—
You're still feeling the effects of-
Yeah.
last night, are you?
A little bit.
Oh wow, it was-
Yeah.
really a rough night.
Well, it's normal.
So what is a typical week for you as far as your alcohol use?
Um, well, me and my friends kinda, uh, we party on the weekend and, you know, we're all university students and so it's just normal, um, to have a few drinks.
So a few drinks is nothing new to you?
No.
And what does a few drinks look like? Is that per night? Is it two drinks?
Um, per night, uh, like if we go out oh, it's a lot. It's like I can drink probably like seven or eight drinks like if I'm going hard. Um, and then, you know, like maybe when I get home from school, a long day at the library, have a beer or two, so.
All right. Do you have any concerns at all about your alcohol use?
No. I-I don't know. It's normal for university students I feel.
Okay, so at this point, you're not too concerned and you think that, you know, this is what the other students are doing?
Yeah.
Would you be open to kind of looking at the low-risk drinking alcohol guidelines?
Yeah, sure.
I don't know how you're feeling right now but I'm just wondering if we can take a-just a quick glance at this-
Yeah.
-and what the safe limits are for women is 10 drinks for women a week with about two drinks, uh, per day.
Oh really?
Yeah.
Wow.
Where do you- where do you feel you fall into that?
Uh, uh I would say a little over that.
Okay, okay.
Especially with midterms coming up.
Okay, so it's kind of a way to cope through stress?
Yeah.
Right, and is that something that has been, you know, a way of coping for a while?
Yeah. Yeah, I guess.
Okay. Does that concern you at all?
Um, I mean, the 10 drinks seems like not a lot, uh, for like-for me and like my tolerance.
Mm-hmm.
I guess I've kind of built it up over the years.
Okay.
Um, so that's a little- a little bit, uh, concerning I guess to me.
Do you feel like you have any reasons to kind of bring your alcohol use down within the limits?
Uh, any reason to? Uh, I guess health-health reasons.
Tell me more about that.
Um, well, I mean, clearly I don't feel good right now. Um, and it's-- I definitely feel more productive when I don't have a hangover. Uh, so I see a benefit.
So you can see some advantages to reducing the amount of drinking-
Yeah.
um, that you consume during the week?
Yeah
Is this something you would be willing to explore with me a little further at another time maybe when you're feeling a little bit better? Is this something you'd be willing to come back and talk to me about?
Yeah, yeah, I think when I'm feeling a little- a little better. Maybe when I haven't gone all out the-the night before and sprained my ankle.
I'd love to, uh, set up an appointment for you if you can come in later this week or early next week to-
Okay, okay.
kind of explore this a little bit further and maybe some of those advantages of reducing to the safe limits. is that something that we could do?
Sure. Yeah, just not on a Saturday morning. [chuckles]
That's okay with me.
Okay.
Thank you.
Yeah. Sounds good.

